{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset161 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f4\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f8\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont7\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl360\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs40\lang9 Assignment-01 \par
NAME- TARUN BHARADWAJ\par
ROLL NO.- 65 \par
SECTION- (AU)2\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\ulnone\fs24 Q1. Write a C program for calculating the price of a product after adding the sales tax to its original price. Where rate of tax and price is inputted by user.\par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float originalPrice;\par
\tab  float taxRate;\par
\tab  float totalPrice;\par
\tab  \par
    printf("Enter the original price of the product: "); \par
    scanf("%f", &originalPrice);\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the sales tax rate (in percentage): ");\par
    scanf("%f", &taxRate);\par
\par
    totalPrice = originalPrice + (originalPrice * (taxRate / 100.0));\par
\par
    printf("Total price after tax: %.2f\\n", totalPrice);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\b Q2. Write a C program to calculate the weekly wages of an employee. The pay depends on wages per hour and number of hours worked. Moreover, if the employee has worked for more than 30 hours, then he or she gets twice the wages per hour, for every extra hour that he or she has worked.\par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main() \par
\{\par
    float hourlyWage; \par
    float weeklyWages;\par
    int hoursWorked;\par
\par
    printf("Enter the hourly wage: ");\par
    scanf("%f", &hourlyWage);\par
\par
    printf("Enter the number of hours worked: ");\par
    scanf("%d", &hoursWorked);\par
\par
    if (hoursWorked <= 30) \{\par
        weeklyWages = hourlyWage * hoursWorked;\par
    \} \par
\tab else \{\par
        weeklyWages = (hourlyWage * 30) + ((hoursWorked - 30) * (hourlyWage * 2));\par
    \}\par
\par
    printf("Weekly wages: ruppes %.2f\\n", weeklyWages);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q.3 Mr. X goes to market for buying some fruits and vegetables. He is having a currency of Rs 500 with him for marketing. From a shop, he purchases 2.0 kg Apple priced Rs. 50.0 per kg, 1.5 kg Mango priced Rs.35.0 per kg, 2.5 kg Potato priced Rs.10.0 per kg, and 1.0 kg Tomato priced Rs.15 per kg. He gives the currency of Rs. 500 to the shopkeeper. Find out the amount shopkeeper will return to X by writing a C program.\par
\b0 ANS:-  #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main() \par
\{\par
    float wallet = 500.0;\par
    float totalCost = 0.0;\par
\par
    float applePrice = 50.0;\par
    float mangoPrice = 35.0;\par
    float potatoPrice = 10.0;\par
    float tomatoPrice = 15.0;\par
\par
    float appleQty = 2.0;\par
    float mangoQty = 1.5;\par
    float potatoQty = 2.5;\par
    float tomatoQty = 1.0;\par
\par
    totalCost = (applePrice * appleQty) + (mangoPrice * mangoQty) + (potatoPrice * potatoQty) + (tomatoPrice * tomatoQty);\par
\par
    if (totalCost <= wallet) \par
\tab\{\par
        float amountToReturn = wallet - totalCost;\par
        printf("Mr. X will receive Rs. %.2f in change.\\n", amountToReturn);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Mr. X does not have enough money to make the purchase.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q4.Write a C program to print your name, date of birth and mobile number in 3 different lines.\par
\b0 ANS:- #include<stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{\par
printf("name:- sujal goyal\\n");\par
printf("dob:- 15 march 2004\\n");\par
printf("mobile no:- 7627093923");\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q5.Write a program to read an integer, a character and a float value from keyboard and display the same in different lines on the screen.\b0\par
ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int integerNumber;\par
    char character;\par
    float floatValue;\par
\par
    printf("Enter an integer: ");\par
    scanf("%d", &integerNumber);\par
\par
    printf("Enter a character: ");\par
    scanf(" %c", &character); \par
\par
    printf("Enter a float: ");\par
    scanf("%f", &floatValue);\par
\par
    printf("Integer: %d\\n", integerNumber);\par
    printf("Character: %c\\n", character);\par
    printf("Float: %.2f\\n", floatValue);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q6.Write a program to print the following line ( Assume the total value is contained in a variable named cost)\par
The sales total is : $ 172.53\par
\b0  ANS:-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double cost = 172.53;\par
\par
    printf("The sales total is : $ %.2lf\\n", cost);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q7.Raju got 6 and half apples from each of Raghu, Sheenu and Akash. He wants to know how many apples he has in total without adding them. Write a program which could help Raju in doing this.\par
\b0  ANS:-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int apples_from_each = 6;\par
    int num_people = 3;\par
\par
    int total_apples = apples_from_each * num_people;\par
\par
    printf("Raju has a total of %d apples without adding them manually.\\n", total_apples);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q8.Write a program that prints the floating point value in exponential format correct to two decimal places.\par
\b0\par
ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double floatValue = 12345.6789; // Replace this with your desired floating-point value\par
\par
    printf("Floating-point value in exponential format: %.2e\\n", floatValue);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q9.Write a program to input and print your mobile number (i.e. of 10 digits). \b0\par
ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#inculde<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    char mobileNumber[11];\par
\par
    printf("Please enter your 10-digit mobile number: ");\par
    scanf("%s", mobileNumber);\par
\par
    \par
    if (strlen(mobileNumber) == 10) \{\par
        \par
        printf("Your mobile number is: %s\\n", mobileNumber);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Invalid input. Please enter a 10-digit mobile number.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q10.The population of a city is 30000. It increases by 20 % during first year and 30% during the second year. Write a program to find the population after two years? (Ans: 46800)\par
\b0 ANS:-#include <stdio.h> \par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int initialPopulation = 30000;\par
    double increasePercentage1 = 0.20; \par
    double increasePercentage2 = 0.30; \par
\par
    int populationAfterFirstYear = initialPopulation + (int)(initialPopulation * increasePercentage1);\par
\par
    \par
    int populationAfterSecondYear = populationAfterFirstYear + (int)(populationAfterFirstYear * increasePercentage2);\par
\par
    printf("Population after two years: %d\\n", populationAfterSecondYear);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q11. Write a program to find the ASCII value of a character. \par
\b0 ANS:-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    char character;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter a character: ");\par
    scanf("%c", &character);\par
    printf("ASCII value of '%c' is %d\\n", character, character);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q12. Write a program to calculate salary of an employee, given his basic pay (entered by user), HRA=15% of the basic pay and TA=20% of the basic pay. \par
\b0 ans:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double basicPay, hra, ta, salary;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the basic pay: ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &basicPay);\par
\par
    hra = 0.15 * basicPay;\par
    ta = 0.20 * basicPay;\par
\par
    \par
    salary = basicPay + hra + ta;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Basic Pay: %.2lf\\n", basicPay);\par
    printf("HRA: %.2lf\\n", hra);\par
    printf("TA: %.2lf\\n", ta);\par
    printf("Total Salary: %.2lf\\n", salary);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\b\}\b0\par
\b Q13. Write a program to find  the slope of a line and angle of inclination that passes through two points P and Q with coordinates (xp, yp) and (xq, yq) respectively. \par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double xp, yp, xq, yq;\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the coordinates of point P (xp yp): ");\par
    scanf("%lf %lf", &xp, &yp);\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the coordinates of point Q (xq yq): ");\par
    scanf("%lf %lf", &xq, &yq);\par
    \par
    double slope = (yq - yp) / (xq - xp);\par
    \par
    double angle_rad = atan(slope);\par
    double angle_deg = angle_rad * (180.0 / M_PI);\par
    \par
    printf("Slope of the line: %.2lf\\n", slope);\par
    printf("Angle of inclination (in degrees): %.2lf\\n", angle_deg);\par
    \par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q14. The SPI (Semester Performance Index) is a weighted average of the grade points earned by a student in all the courses he registered for in a semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades awarded to a student are g1, g2, g3,\'85\'85.gk etc. and the corresponding credits are c1, c2, c3,.\'85..ck, the SPI is  given by:\par
\par
Where, k is the number of courses for which the candidate remains registered for during the semester/ trimester. Write a program in C to calculate SPI for k =5. \par
\b0 ans:- \par
#include <stdio.h> \par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int k = 5; // Number of courses\par
    double grade_points[] = \{3.5, 4.0, 3.7, 3.0, 3.8\}; \par
    int credits[] = \{3, 4, 3, 2, 3\}; \par
    double spi = 0.0;\par
    int total_credits = 0;\par
\par
    \par
    for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) \{\par
        spi += (grade_points[i] * credits[i]);\par
        total_credits += credits[i];\par
    \}\par
\par
    if (total_credits > 0) \{\par
        spi /= total_credits;\par
        printf("SPI for %d courses = %.2lf\\n", k, spi);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Error: Total credits cannot be zero.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q 15. Write a program to calculate the frequency (f) of a given wave with wavelength (\f1\lang1032\'eb) and speed (c), where c=\'eb*f.\f0\lang1033  \par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>  \par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double wavelength, speed, frequency;\par
\par
    \f1\lang1032\par
    printf("Enter the wavelength (\'eb) in meters: ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &wavelength);\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the speed (c) in meters per second: ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &speed);\par
\par
    \par
    if (wavelength != 0) \{\par
        frequency = speed / wavelength;\par
        printf("Frequency (f) = %.2lf Hz\\n", frequency);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Error: Wavelength cannot be zero.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b\f0\lang9 Q 16. A car travelling at 30 m/s accelerates steadily at 5 m/s2 for a distance of 70 m. What is the final velocity of the car? [Hint: v2 = u2 + 2as] \par
\b0 ANS:-#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double initial_velocity = 30.0; // Initial velocity in m/s\par
    double acceleration = 5.0;     // Acceleration in m/s^2\par
    double distance = 70.0;        // Distance in meters\par
    double final_velocity;\par
\par
    // Calculate the final velocity using the formula v^2 = u^2 + 2as\par
    final_velocity = sqrt(pow(initial_velocity, 2) + 2 * acceleration * distance);\par
\par
    printf("The final velocity of the car is %.2lf m/s\\n", final_velocity);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q 17.A horse accelerates steadily from rest at 4 m/s2 for 3s. (a) What is its final velocity? (b) How far has it travelled? [Hint: (a) v = u + at (b)  s = ut + \'bdat2 ] \par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double initial_velocity = 0.0; \par
    double acceleration = 4.0;     \par
    double time = 3.0;             \par
    double final_velocity, distance;\par
    final_velocity = initial_velocity + (acceleration * time);\par
    distance = (initial_velocity * time) + (0.5 * acceleration * time * time);\par
\par
    printf("Final velocity of the horse: %.2lf m/s\\n", final_velocity);\par
    printf("Distance traveled by the horse: %.2lf meters\\n", distance);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q 18.\f2  Write a program to find the sum of your four last digit of your university roll number . \par
\b0 ans:- #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    \par
    char rollNumber[] = "GLA2023-14070032";\par
    int sum = 0;\par
\par
    \par
    for (int i = 4; i < 8; i++) \{\par
        sum += (rollNumber[i] - '0'); // Convert character to integer\par
    \}\par
\par
    printf("Sum of the last four digits of your university roll number: %d\\n", sum);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q19. Write a program to initialize your height and weight in cm. and kgs respectively demonstrating compile time initialization and convert them in feets and pounds respectively.  Note :- 1 cm = 0.393701inch , 1 Kg = 2.20462\par
\b0 ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double height_cm = 175.0; \par
    double weight_kg = 70.0;  \par
\par
    const double CM_TO_INCH = 0.393701;\par
    const double KG_TO_POUND = 2.20462;\par
\par
    double height_feet = height_cm * CM_TO_INCH / 12.0;\par
\par
    double weight_pound = weight_kg * KG_TO_POUND;\par
\par
    printf("Your height is %.2lf cm, which is %.2lf feet.\\n", height_cm, height_feet);\par
    printf("Your weight is %.2lf kg, which is %.2lf pounds.\\n", weight_kg, weight_pound);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b\f0 Q 20 . Code the variable declarations for each of following:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj\b0 A character variable named option. \par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\b ANS:- char option;                // A character variable named option\b0\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}An integer variable sum initialized to 0\b\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}int sum = 0;               // An integer variable sum initialized to 0\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sl360\slmult1\qj A floating point variable, product, initialized to 1 \b\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}float product = 1.0;       // A floating-point variable product initialized to 1.0\b0\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Q21. Write a program that reads nine integers. Display these numbers by printing three numbers in a line separated by commas\b0 . \par
ANS:- #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int numbers[9]; // Declare an array to store nine integers\par
\par
    // Input nine integers\par
    printf("Enter nine integers, one at a time:\\n");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        scanf("%d", &numbers[i]);\par
    \}\par
\par
    // Display the numbers in groups of three\par
    printf("Numbers in groups of three:\\n");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        printf("%d", numbers[i]);\par
        if ((i + 1) % 3 == 0) \{\par
            printf("\\n"); // Print a newline after every three numbers\par
        \} else \{\par
            printf(", "); // Print a comma and space between numbers\par
        \}\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\b Q22. What are header files and what are its uses in C programming? \b0\par
ANS:- #include<stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h\b >\b0\par
\b Q23. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{   int num=070;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d\\t%o\\t%x\rdblquote ,num,num,num);\par
\} \par
\b0 ANS:- 50    70    38  \par
\par
\par
\b Q 24. What will be the output of following program?\par
#include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par
int x = printf("GLA UNIVERSITY");\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj    \tab printf("%d", x);\par
  \tab  \} \par
\b0 ANS:- GLA UNIVERSITY\b\par
\b0\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b\f3\fs22 Question-25. \f0\fs24 What are library functions? List any four library functions.\f3\fs22\par
\b0  ANS:-  Library functions, also known as standard library functions, are pre-defined functions provided by the C programming language to perform common tasks. These functions are part of the C standard library and can be used by including the appropriate header files. Library functions simplify programming by providing a set of well-tested and efficient routines for various operations. Here are four commonly used C library functions:\par
\par
\b printf(): \b0 The printf function is used for formatted output. It allows you to display information on the console or write it to a file, formatted according to specified format specifiers.\par
\par
\b scanf(): \b0 The scanf function is used for formatted input. It allows you to read data from the console or a file, parsing it according to specified format specifiers.\par
\par
\b strlen(): \b0 The strlen function is used to determine the length of a null-terminated string (a sequence of characters).\par
\par
\b rand(): \b0 The rand function is used for generating pseudo-random numbers. It returns a random integer between 0 and RAND_MAX.\par
\par
These are just a few examples of C library functions. The C standard library provides a wide range of functions for various purposes, including mathematical operations, memory allocation, string manipulation, file handling, and more. To use these functions, you typically include the appropriate header file, as shown in the examples above, and then call the functions in your code.                                        \par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj  \b Question-26. \f0\fs24 What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj  \tab   int x = printf("C is placement oriented Language") \f4\endash\f0  printf(\ldblquote Hi\rdblquote );\par
 \tab   printf("%d %o %x", x,x,x);\par
 \tab\}\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\par
C is placement oriented language \par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Question-27. \f0\fs24 . What is the meaning of following statement?    printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,scanf(\ldblquote %d%d\rdblquote ,&a,&b));\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\par
The statement is a bit unconventional and not recommended.\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Question-28. \f0\fs24 What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h> \par
void main() \par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj\{ \par
  printf(" \\"C %% FOR %% PLACEMENT\\""); \par
\}\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\tab\par
\ldblquote  C % FOR % PLACEMENT\rdblquote\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj QUESTION-29. \f0\fs24 Suppose distance between GLA University and Delhi is m km (to be entered by user), by BUS you can reach Delhi in 4 hours. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate speed of bus.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main() \par
\{ \par
float m,s;\par
   printf(\ldblquote  enter the distance between Delhi and GLA\rdblquote );\par
   scanf(\ldblquote %f\rdblquote ,&m);\par
   s=m/4;\par
   printf(\ldblquote  the speed of bus %2f km/hr\rdblquote ,m);\par
\}\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Question-30.\f0\fs24  In an exam Satyam got 50 marks, Suman got 70 marks and Shyam got 80 marks, Write a \lquote C\rquote  program to find average marks of these three participants.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\f3\fs22\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main() \{ int suman=70,satyam=50,shyam=80,avg;\par
   avg=(suman+satyam+shyam)/3;\par
 printf(\ldblquote avg marks is %f\rdblquote ,avg);\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Question-31. \f0\fs24 One day, Mohan called Saurav and Sajal and gave some money to them, later he realized that money that was given to Saurav should be given to Sajal and vice-versa. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Mohan so that he can rectify his mistake.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double saurav_money, sajal_money, temp;\par
\par
    printf("Enter the amount given to Saurav: ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &saurav_money);\par
\par
    printf("Enter the amount given to Sajal: ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &sajal_money);\par
\par
    temp = saurav_money;\par
    saurav_money = sajal_money;\par
    sajal_money = temp;\par
\par
    printf("After rectification:\\n");\par
    printf("Amount given to Saurav: %.2lf\\n", saurav_money);\par
    printf("Amount given to Sajal: %.2lf\\n", sajal_money);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Question-32. \f0\fs24 One day when I was going for a lunch, suddenly rain started, I was very hungry so started running with speed of 4km/h and it took 3 min to reach mess. Help me to develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate distance travelled by me.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0\f3\fs22 ANS:-\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
#include<conio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{  float s=4.0,t=3,d,T;\par
  T=3/60;\par
  d=s*T;\par
  Printf(\ldblquote speed %f\rdblquote ,d);\par
\}\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b\f5 33) Can two or more escape sequences such as \\n and \\t be combined in a single line of program code ?\par
\par
\b0 Answer: Yes two or more escape sequences such as \\n and \\t can be used in a single line of code in c programming.\par
\par
\b 34) What are comments ? How can you insert it in c program ?\par
\par
\b0 Answer: Comments are extra information about the code for the programmer. It is not supposed to run during execution of  the program.\par
There are two types of comments:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 Single line comment.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone Multiline comment.\ul\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b Single line comment:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b0 In this type of comment we comment a single line of code.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone We use // in starting of the line we want to comment.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone Example:\ul\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone // printf("hello class");\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\ul\b Multi line comment:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b0 In this type of comment we comment  more than one line of code \ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone We use /*in starting of portion we want to comment and */ at last of the portion.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone Example:\ul\par

\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone  /*int a,b;\par
a= 20;\par
b= a*6;\par
printf("b is %d",b);*/\par
\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b 35) What is wrong in this statement?\par
      scanf("%d", number);\par
\b0\par
Answer: In this statement there is no & sign before variable number due to which  value entered by user cannot be assigned to the variable number.\par
The correct syntax should be like:\par
scanf("%d",&number);\par
\par
\b 36) What will be the output?\par
        #include<studio.h>\par
         int main()\par
         \{\par
         if(sizeof(int)>-1)\par
         \{\par
          printf("Yes");\par
         \}\par
         else\par
         \{\par
          printf("No");\par
         \}\par
         return 0;\par
         \}\par
\b0\par
Answer: The output will be "Yes" because we know that sizeof function gives size of the data type so here size of int can be 2 or 4 which is greater than -1 so condition of if statement is satisfied and it would enter the block of if statement and then it will print Yes.\par
\b\par
37) Point out which of the following variable names are valid:\par
    gross-salary,INTEREST , salary of emp,avg.,thereisbookinmysoup\par
\b0\par
Answer:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 gross-salary: It contains hyphen which is not allowed in variable name of c.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone salary of emp: It contains spaces which is not considerable in variable name of c.\ul\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\ulnone avg.: It contains . Which cannot be used in variable name\ul\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b 38) Tom works at an aquarium shop on Saturdays. One Saturday, when Tom gets to work, he is asked to clean a 175-gallon reef tank. His first job is to drain the tank. He puts a hose into the tank and starts a siphon. Tom wonders if the tank will finish draining before he leaves work. He measures the amount of water that is draining out and finds that 12.5 gallons drain out in 30 minutes. So, he figures that the rate is 25 gallons per hour. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Tom to calculate time required to completely clean tank.\par
\par
\b0 Answer: \par
include<studio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{\par
int R,T,TV;\par
TV= 175;\par
R= 25;\par
T= TV/R;\par
printf("Time for draining complete tank :- %d hours",T);\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\b\f6 39) The percent y (in decimal form) of battery power remaining x hours after you turn on a laptop computer is y = \f7\u8722?\f6 0.2 x + 1. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate after how many hours the battery power is at 75%?\f5\par
\b0\lang9\par
Answer:\par
include<studio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{\par
int x,y;\par
y= 75;\par
x=-( (1-y)/0.2);\par
printf("battery will drain after %d hours",x);\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs24\par
\b Q40.Which of the following is used to convert the high level language in machine language in a single go?\par
a. Compiler\tab\tab b.Interpreter       \par
c. Linker\tab\tab d.Assembler \par
\b0\par
ANS:- [A]\par
\par
\b Q 41. What is the format specifier for an Octal Number?\par
a.%0\tab  \tab b.%d   \par
   \par
c. %o\tab\tab d. %e\par
ANS:- [C]\b0\par
Q 42. Which format specifier is used to print the exponent value upto 2 decimal places.\par
a. %e\tab b.%.2f \tab c. %f\tab\tab d.%.2e \line    ANS:- [B]\par
\par
\b Q 43. Which of the following is not a basic data type?\par
a. char\par
b. array     \par
c. float\tab\par
d. int\par
\b0 ANS:- [B]\par
\par
\b Q 44. What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int x=0;\par
  x= printf("\\"hello\\b\\"");\par
  printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. hello7     b. \ldblquote hello\rdblquote 7\tab  c. \ldblquote hell\rdblquote 8      d. hell8 \par
\b0 ANS:- [C]\par
    \par
\b Q 45.  What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int b,c=5 ;\par
  int(\ldblquote %d , %d\rdblquote , b,c);\par
\}\par
a. 5, 5\tab\tab\tab   b. 5, 5.000000\tab\par
c. Garbage, 5.000000       d. Garbage, 5 \par
\b0 ANS:- [D]\par
\b\par
Q46. Which of the following is an identifier?\par
a. &fact      b. Basic_pay    c. enum         d. 1sum \par
\b0  ANS:- [B]\par
\par
\b Q 47. What is the output of the following program?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
   char x, a=\rquote c\rquote ;\par
   x=printf("%c",a);\par
   printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. c1\tab\tab b. cgarbage                            \par
c. 1\tab\tab c. c\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0 ANS:- [a is  correct]\par
\par
\b Q48. Perform the following conversion from Decimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (365.55)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 2  \nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(453.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 8 \nosupersub  \par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(5164.12)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 16\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(23.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 5\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(772)\sub 10\nosupersub  =       (?)\sub 7\nosupersub\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0 ANS:-  a)  101101101.10001100110011001101\par
(b) 705.51463146314631463146\par
(c)  142C.1EB851EB851EB851EB85\par
(d) 43.31111111111111111111\par
(e) 2152\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b Q49. Covert the following numbers to decimal number system-\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (325.54)\sub 6\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(1001010110101.1110101)\sub 2\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(742.72)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(AC94.C5)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\b0\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj A.49.\par
       (a) 125.944\par
       (b) 4789.9140625\par
       (c) 482.90625\par
       (d) 44180.76953125\par
\b Q50. Perform the following conversion from Hexadecimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj  (DB56.CD4)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 8\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 4    \nosupersub\par
\b0 ANS:- (?)\sub 2\nosupersub =(1101101101010110.110011010100)\sub 2\par
\nosupersub (?)\sub 8\nosupersub =(33353032.332)\sub 8\nosupersub\par
(?)\sub 4\nosupersub =(3123112311.23)\sub 4\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\nosupersub\b Q51. Perform the following conversion from octal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj (473.42)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 10,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 16\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 5 \par
\nosupersub\b0 ANS:-  (?)\sub 2\nosupersub =(100111001011.100010)\sub 2\nosupersub\par
(?)\sub 10\nosupersub =(311.132812510)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
(?)\sub 16\nosupersub =(9CBD.82)\sub 16\par
\nosupersub (?)\sub 5\nosupersub =(21441.3313...)\sub 5\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\nosupersub\b Q52. Find the value of A?\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl360\slmult1\qj (23)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (17)\sub A\nosupersub  \sub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\nosupersub\b0 ANS:- 10\super 1\nosupersub +10\super 0 \nosupersub = 20+3 = (23)\sub 10\nosupersub  =(23)\sub A \nosupersub , SO  A = 10\sub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\nosupersub\b (21)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (41\sub )A\nosupersub  \b0\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}ANS:- 16\super 1\nosupersub +16\super 0\nosupersub  = 32+1 = (33)\sub 10 \nosupersub =(33)\sub A \nosupersub , SO A = 10\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\b (32)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (101)\sub A\nosupersub  \b0\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}ANS:- 8\super 1\nosupersub +8\super 0\nosupersub  =24+2 = (26)\sub 10 \nosupersub =(26)\sub A \nosupersub ,SO A = 10\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b\par
Q53:  What will be the output of following program? Assume integer is of 2 bytes\par
void main()\{\par
int  a=32770;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d,a);\par
\}\par
\b0 ANS:- #include<stdio.h>\par
int main ()\par
\{\par
\tab int a=32770;\par
printf("%d",a);\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\b output:- 32770\par
\b0\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\b Q54: #include <stdio.h>\par
 int main()\par
\{\par
 float c = 5.0;\par
 printf ("Temperature in Fahrenheit is %.2f", (9/5)*c + 32);\par
 return 0;\par
\}\par
\b0 output:- Temperature in Fahrenheit is 41.00\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f3\fs22\par
}
 